# finalproject.md-

Process
I love candy. I love candy so much that I have had 12 cavities at one time before. I was infatuated with candy I thought I would focus on creating a data story on the sugar in candy. The reason I wanted to create a data story on this because there is a huge hype that candy companies are making candy that is not only tasty but also healthier for you. So I looked at a data set on nutrient facts on the top six candies 9 (not in my eyes but I’ll let it slide) that the Department of Agriculture created to see if candy companies were living up to their word. If found the information from the Agricultural Research Service National Nutrient Database for Standard Reference Release 28 from the United States Department of Agriculture. I focused on one particular item of what makes candy bad for you and explored that item through each candy. But as I analyzed the data, I began to bring in other factors and ingredients to find what is the best candy to eat. I think bringing in these factors helped me to be able to see what other issues lie with candy and  give particular ingredients candy advocates should focus on if they want their favorite candies to be healthier. 

Story

Once upon a time, a staffer at  online social media company created and posted a video of them making tacos. But it wasn’t any ordinary taco video. The video was produced using a point-of-view camera technique with viewers only able to view the hands of the chef and ingredients of the taco. Hungry college kids with no money had become able to watch an unidentifiable person create a 30 minute meal in under a minute. After more recipes recorded, catchy music and fun themes were added, Tasty had created a delicious movement. The fasciation of watching someone slice, dice, chop and blend food to create a dish has everyone locked on their screens. Tasty has become so popular that is one of the main driving forces of viewership for Buzzfeed. 
Food has created an impact on our society in tremendous ways. Besides providing everyone with the nutrients to survive, food brings people together, creates an atmosphere and speaks to many social issues. Our fixation on food is truly extraordinary. On any platform you can find a self proclaim foodie taking pictures of what they’re eating and the feeling that food gives them. You can also find a self proclaimed food critique on any social media that is willing to talk about how bad the food is any given restaurant.
The point is, as any thirteen year old forever 21 shirt would say, “Food is Life…yaaasss”. And while food may be “life”, the commitment to changing the nutrients in food is also life. The U.S. Department of Agriculture is constantly updating the facts of the nutrients we obtain everyday. The database has nutrients facts for over 8,000 types of food. Today we will focus and discuss the nutrient facts of candy. While candy has and probably  will never be super healthy, companies around the globe have tried to make ways to make candy more healthier than before. So today we will compare the nutrients facts of different candies and see what we can find. But because there are so many types of candy, we will look to the Daily Press 2015 article titled “Just In Time for Halloween, Most Popular Candies in the U.S.” to look at the nutrients of the top candies sold. The article says that the top cavity givers are Kit Kat’s, Snickers, Twizzlers, Reese’s Peanut Butter Cup, Starburst and M&M’s. According to the article “Why is Candy Bad For Your Health” from livestrong.com, one of the main factors that makes candy bad is the amount of sugar. Therefor we will examine the top five candies of all time and the amount of sugar that is in each candy.
The total grams of sugar are measured by per 100 grams of the content. M&M’s contains about 67 grams of sugar. Reese’s Peanut Butter Cup has 47 grams. Snicker bars have roughly 50 grams. Kit Kat’s have about 49 grams. Twizzlers hold about 40 grams of sugar and Starburst have about 60 grams of sugar. Besides realizing that there is a lot of sugar in every single one of the candies, we can analyze some differences in each candy. M&M’s and Starburst are the heavy hitters with over 60 grams of sugar per 100 grams of the candy. But when comparing these two too each other, Starburst has about 7 grams of saturated fat and zero grams of calcium while M&M’s has almost 12 grams of saturated fat and 5 grams of calcium. The base ingredients of these two items are also very different with; M&M’s being chocolate based that includes other healthier ingredients like milk and soy and Starburst being more artificial sugar based. So what someone could assume from this data is that while Starburst have less calories and less saturated fat, M&M’s contain healthier ingredients. 
Snicker’s and Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups have roughly the same amount of sugar. I find this to not be a surprise because these two items are more in common than other candy on the list. Both of these candies contain peanuts or peanut butter as the surprise twist to the treat. Peanuts and Peanut butter already contain a lot of sugar and fat on their own.  So there was much surprise to see that these two candies had less sugar than M&M’s. But these two make up in other categories like protein and calcium.
Finally, we have Twizzlers and Kit Kat’s. People behind the Twizzlers brand focus on the fact that there candy is Fat Free. They even have the label“ Fat Free” on their packaging (as if that is almost suppose to make you feel better for eating the candy). But because the candy is fat free, I was almost certain that the candy would contain a large amount of sugar. But Twizzlers actually have a low amount of sugar and high amount of carbohydrates; running about 80 grams of carbs per each 100 grams of the candy. Something interesting while looking into the nutrient facts of Kit Kat’s is that this was the only candy that had caffeine as an ingredient; 14 milligrams to be exact. So when choosing between M&M’s and Kit Kat’s your essentially choosing if you want to consume large amount of sugar with no caffeine or a smaller amount of sugar with a little caffeine.
If a person was to choose a candy based off the amount of sugar in the candy, Twizzlers would be the best option. But after analyzing the data, other factors like saturated fat, carbs and even caffeine can play a huge role into deciding which is truly the best candy. Overall looking at all of the nutrient facts, the better options of candy choices would be either a Snicker’s Bar or a Reese’s Peanut Butter cup. These two contain more calcium and protein than any other candy on the list.
As health and healthy food become more important topics in the future, it will be interesting to see how these six candies will evolve. One of the biggest pushes from many of the current top candy companies is creating a product that is both healthy and satisfying for the consumers. But the imbalance of sugar to other ingredients, only time will tell if these candy companies will be able to produce healthier options.
